##Week 2: Existing Open Source Summaries

For this assignment, I decided to look into a few open source projects in order to explore potential projects that I might want to contribute to as well as to familizarize myself with the online open source environment.  I began my search with a few simple Google searches; however, I found that I had the most success browsing different projects once I stumbled upon the Trending Repositories page on GitHub.  After reading up on a few of these applications, I decided to conduct my in depth analysis on three projects: AngularJS, Docker, and Bootstrap.

###AngularJS

AngularJS is an open source software that is intended to assist users in developing client-side products by extending HTML. 
It is meant to provide developers with the necessary tools to construct the proper framework for their application by making HTML a much more valuable resource.  

The source code is all available through a GitHub repository with over 800 total contributors.  From the time that I am writing this summary, the latest commit came in roughly two hours ago, clearly indicating the continued committment by the developers to improve this product.  In addition to the frequent activity on GitHub, the home site for AngularJS showcases just how interested developers are in this software.  Numerous videos have been posted in which the developers talk about the actual code behind their product.  Furthermore, the home page includes a brief tutorial meant to help newcomers get started with the software if they are interested in it.  From the screenshots and phrasing, it is clear that these intructions are meant for a developer audience.  

AngularJS appears to have a solid user base, too.  Their site contains a detailed "Learn" section in which users are provided with the necessary resources to get started working with the software.  This includes a detailed tutorial for installation and initial setup, as well as a link to their YouTube channel that has numerous useful videos for new and experienced users.  

I also found it interesting that the site includes links to their blog, a chat room, and other social media sites that users can use to communicate with one another and further pursue their interest if they desire to do so.  I found that this was one of the strongest features that AngularJS had to offer in terms of fueling user interest.  

Their code is very well documented and remains fairly consistent throughout.  I am intersted in looking more into documentation potentially, since I really have not had the chance to focus specifically on that; however, I'm not really sure where to begin for a project such as that.  If I were going to look at documentation, it would not be for this project.  AngularJS has a whole development section that looks clean, useful, and accurate in declaring documentation.

If I were to contribute to this project in some way, it would likely be through development.  I would have to do a bit more exploring in order to see if there would be a specific improvement I could work on myself; however, I feel as though I would be able to contribute more effectively by modifying existing source code.  This could be anything from simple clean up to perhaps utilizing another library or API.  Fortunately, AngularJS provides developers with a great place to start.  Their site hosts a "Contribute" page in which users are instructed on how to properly install and test the project.  From a quick look at this, I can gather that they might be lacking in the testing department, which is something that I do not have a ton of experience with, but am open to looking into for this project.

###Docker

Similar to AngularJS, Docker is geared towards helping developers.  It is a platform on which developers can "build, ship, and run distributed applications."  This provides users with a convenient means of developing since they can easily and reliably build and run their application knowing that it can run anywhere.  

Docker has a _very_ thorough instillation guide.  This is incredibly beneficial for users.  The appeal of the product is certainly clear; however, if the instructions on how to use it are not, then that creates complications.  That is not the case with Docker.  In fact, users are provided with the necessary instructions on how to reach this end.  Docker promises accessibility.  The software provides a platform with which developers can build their own apps.  This suggests that Docker is compatible with different developer environments.  This key factor is reflected in their Installation guide, which provides users with a detailed guide on how to install Docker on practically any operating system.  In addition to detailed instructions, several of these guides include YouTube videos, too.  Docker is compatible with Windows, Mac OSX, Ubuntu, Linux, and Google Cloud Platform, to name a few.  It seems simple, but it's certainly important.  

Developers benefit from using software such as this, something that the Docker developers constantly make a case for.  A common alternative to user Docker is to use Virtual Machines.  From my understanding of Virtual Machines, they create an artificial environment that is meant to emulate that of another machine.  So for instance, a user of Mac OSX might use a Virtual Machine to create a Windows software environment on his/her Apple hardware.  This is largely done to avoid other dependencies that might create problems when running certain applications on different devices.  In their documentation on GitHub, this is one of the first thing that is addressed.  Docker is meant to provide the same kind of utility that Virtual Machines while improving on some of their faults (size, performance, and portability, to name a few).  

As if I weren't already convinced that Docker is useful technology, the site hosts a Use Cases page in which other products are listed that use Docker.  Ebay and Spotify are two of the big ones.  What is so helpful about this page is that it shows something familiar to showcase the kind of power Docker can have.  In addition to this, the documentation is once again very strong.  Users are free to explore more on the subject.  If a user wants to learn more about how Docker is utilized by Ebay, then he/she can click through to a video that contains detailed information on just that.

Like any good open source project site, Docker contains a contribute page.  Unfortunately, it is not as clear to me what I would be able to add to this project.  With AngularJS, it was clear that there was room for improvement, most notably with testing; however, the only indication that the Contribute page has of what might need help is actual documentation within the code.  For the most part, I can't really find anything wrong with Docker.  If I decide to pursue this project further, I would definitely start by looking through more of the source code an determining if the internal documentation is sufficient.  


###Bootstrap

Boostrap is a web development framework that is known for its mobile compatibility.  From desktops to phones, a Bootstrap based website looks good and functions well.  It started out on GitHub and has become one of the most popular frameworks for web development.  I have a bit of experience working with Bootstrap myself, which is largely why I wanted to look into the project from an analytical perspective.  

People everywhere use Bootstrap.  The site's homepage hosts a gallery of sites which use Bootstrap as a framework.  Not only does this highlight the power Bootstrap has to develop these kinds of websites, but it showcases just how many people use the code, too.  You are free to download the package of CSS and JavaScript files for quick and easy integration into your website, although the entirety of the source code and documentation can be found on GitHub as well.

The benefits of Bootstrap are numerous and apparent.  When I first took a look at this project, I did not think I was skeptical that I would be able to make a summary out of it, let alone contribute to it in some way for a project.  Despite my initial hesitation, I've found that there is plenty of room for improvement.  

For starters, there is an "Issue  Tracker" within the GitHub repository.  This includes bugs that people have found with the code, i.e. something is not acting the way that it should be, and enhancements or requests that people would like to see implemented.  For instance, one such issue has been posted in which the author has an issue with the carousel prev selector.  Another person posted that he would like to see a fade in effect implemented.  Next to upgrade suggestions such as this, there is a green bar labelled "feature," indicating that this is an enhancement request for a new implementation.  Furthermore, each post has some kind of indication as to what kind of work the issue entails by providing an informative box next to the request.  For instance, a JavaScript related issue shows a yellow box with "js" whereas a CSS related issue has a purple "css" box.  

In addition to the issue tracker page, there are Code Guidelines given in the CONTRIBUTING text doc in the repository.  If a person is going to be making HTML changes, then he/she is given suggestions as to what to consider when doing so.  The same is provided for CSS and JavaScript.  Contributors are provided with the necessary tools to make edits to the code.  If I were to contribute to Bootstrap in some way, I would definitely start with the issue tracker.  I like the idea of having a place to start.  With this page, I have a clear indication as to what bugs I might want to take a look at, or what improvements I might want to look into implementing.  
